chore(docs): small documentation improvements (#1948)
hashicorp/terraform-cdk: website/docs/cdktf/concepts/providers.mdx

---
page_title: Providers
description: >-
  Providers allow Terraform to communicate with external APIs. Learn to define
  providers in a CDK for Terraform application.
---

# Providers

A [provider](/language/providers) is a Terraform plugin that allows users to manage an external API. Provider plugins like the [AWS provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest) or the [cloud-init provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/cloudinit/latest/docs) act as a translation layer that allows Terraform to communicate with many different cloud providers, databases, and services.

![diagram: How Terraform uses plugins](images/terraform-plugin-overview.png)

Terraform uses providers to provision [resources](/language/resources), which describe one or more infrastructure objects like virtual networks and compute instances. Each provider on the [Terraform Registry](https://registry.terraform.io/) has documentation detailing available resources and their configuration options.

> In your CDK for Terraform (CDKTF) application, you will use your preferred programming language to define the resources you want Terraform to manage on one or more providers. This page explains how to use providers, you can find more information on [how to use resources in your application](/cdktf/concepts/resources).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In your CDK for Terraform (CDKTF) application, you will use your preferred programming language to define the resources you want Terraform to manage on one or more providers. This page explains how to install and use providers in your CDKTF application. Refer to [Resources](/cdktf/concepts/resources) for details about defining infrastructure resources and changing resource behavior.
```
